#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
General Summary
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There were two main goals in this work.
 The first goal was to study and improve the existing PKN model, the second
 was to develop a working multifracturing solution based on this model.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Using a mixture of recent improvements, forgotten computational techniques,
 and some own additions it was possible to construct and implement an improved
 formulation for this classical model.
 The overall accuracies were always of at least 
\begin_inset Formula $10^{-3}$
\end_inset

, up to 
\begin_inset Formula $10^{-6}$
\end_inset

 in some more specific cases.
 Additionally the computation time needed for these single fractures was
 always kept at reasonably low levels.
 The two term asymptotics boundary condition proved to be especially beneficial
 in this single fracture formulation, as it not only allowed to adequately
 tackle degenerative PDE at the crack tip, but also gave accurately approximated
 first term, later used for fracture velocity, finite differences and integratio
n.
 It was shown that the proper choice of dependent variable offers substantial
 improvements, although even better improvements could be achieved with
 proper discretization: derivative approximation and spatial mesh choices.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The obtained procedure for single fracture was tested on a wide range of
 initial conditions: different leak off types, storage, receding and propagating
 regimes, various pump in rates and initial shapes.
 It was proven that it is possible to obtain accurate numerical solution
 for a great majority of possible combinations of these conditions, although
 in some cases it was necessary to do some extra extensions to the original
 formulation, to properly account for previously unforeseen circumstances.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The second task of building multifracturing model proved to be much more
 challenging.
 Although the PKN model neatly serves its purpose, it is, just like other
 theoretical fracturing models, very limited in its scope and grossly oversimpli
fied.
 If a single fracture model is to be called a multiphisics formulation,
 then a combination of these should be treated as a 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

grand
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 multiphisics problem.
 Not all the possible issues were addressed or resolved here, rock toughness,
 propane transportation or thermal effects were skipped all along.
 The achieved primary task was to build a multifracturing model with open
 2D geometry and fracture interactions, both pseudo elastic and derived
 from presence of natural fractures.
 This required derivation of new governing equations and boundary conditions
 that could handle multiple fractures adequately.
 The algorithms developed for obtaining numerical solutions of single fractures
 were also eventually superseded to deal with growing size and complexity.
 Furthermore it was necessity to consciously design software capable of
 dealing with multiple fracture hydraulic simulation, using appropriate
 programing techniques as well as the derived mathematical formulation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The final result of this work is a study that formulated theoretical and
 practical basis for construction of relatively simple but powerful hydraulic
 fracture simulation program, that can handle a wide range of possible hydraulic
 fracturing treatment scenarios.
 The task is by no means complete yet, but rather works as a prof of concept
 that using one dimensional formulation it is eventually possible to build
 a comprehensive solution that could compete with its commercial counterparts.
 A variety of mathematical techniques ranging from asymptotics analysis,
 through numerical integrations, and ending up on computer graphics and
 vision algorithms were utilized, making this thesis covering several fields,
 but all of these were applied to solve strict hydraulic fracture problems.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
